Data quality is a multi-dimensional concept. Organizations have to take both individual perceptions of the end user into consideration, as well as the objective measurements based on the data in question.

Subjective assesments can be done, for example, by asking end-users to answer surveys.

Objective assesments can be:
- task dependent
- task independent 

TASK INDEPENDENT metrics reflect states of data without contextual knowledge of the business process or the application in itself and can be applied to any data set.

TASK DEPENDENT metrics , which include the organization's business rules, regulations and constraints provided by the database administrator, are developed in specific apllication contexts.

DATA QUALITY DIMENSIONS

Accesibility -	the extent to which data is available and accesible to retrieval
Appropiate Amount of Data - the extent to which the quantity of data satisfies the business needs of the task at hand
Believability - the extent to which data is regarded as credible
Completeness - the extent to which data is not missing and is sufficiently broad for the task at hand
Concise Representation - the extent to which data is concisely represented 
Consistent Representation - the extent to which data respects the same format accross the organization
Ease of Manipulation - the extent to which data is easily maleable and appliable to the task
Free-Of-Error -  the extent to which data is correct and reliable
Interpretability - the extent to which data can be easily understandable, is in the appropriate language, format, unit of measurement
Objectivity -  the extent to which data is unbiased, unprejudiced and impartial
Relevancy -  the extent to which data is relevant and applicable to the task at hand
Reputation - the extent to which data is highly regarded in terms of its content 
Security -  the extent to which data is securely stored and accesible only to authorized users
Timeliness - the extent to which data is up to date for the task at hand
Understandability - the extent to which data is easy to comprehend
Value-Added -  the extent to which data is valuable and provides advantages from its use


DATA QUALITY ASSESMENT IN PRACTICE

1. Asses Data (subjective/objective assesment)
2. Identify Issues (data entry issue/ source system issue) - ? might not be solvable from the scope of a data warehouse engineer for eg.
3. Determine cause of action - choose a strategy

Four strategies:
1. Do nothing
2. Fix the source
3. Fix in data warehouse
4. Flag wrong/inconsistent data

Kimbal recommendation:
- Change processes
- Improve data entry environment 
- Improve integration
- Commit to high data quality culture
- Measure data quality (subjectively/objectively)
- Raise awareness
- Cooperation 
