Extract Transform Load

For the dimensions:
1. Extracting data from sources into the staging area
2. Cleansing/transforming data 
3. Initial load of dimensions
4. Separate load for the Date Dimension

TYPES OF LOADING:
1. Initial Load - populating the tables for the first time
2. Incremental Load - applying changes on an ongoing basis
3. Full refresh - wiping out the existing data and loading it all over again


For the fact table: 
1. Create a fact table in the staging area
2. Populate the fact table (except the keys)
3. Look up the keys in the DWH dimension tables + update the fact table
4. Populate the DWH fact table.



* 2. Checking for Data Quality Issues

Common to search for odd values, nulls, etc.
Date formats, units of measurement should be consistent accross the system.
In the ETL environment, integration means conforming dimensions and facts accross all business process.
ETL streams usually require a data latency that matches the natural rhytm of the business process.
This requirement could be dangerous in itself, as it may affect performance at certain periods.
The recommendation would be to divide the challenge into three:
- daily (Daily means that the data visible on the screen is valid as of a batch file download or reconciliation from the source system at the end of the previous working day.)
- frequently (Frequently means that the data visible to the end user is updated many times per day but is not guaranteed to be the absolute current truth as of this instant.)
- instantaneous (Instantaneous means that the data visible on the end user’s screen represents the true state of the source transaction system at every instant. When the source system status changes, the online screen must also respond instantly.)

This should be discussed with the end user and all advantages and disadvantages should be thoroughly discussed, in order to decide on a data latency requirement.

*4. Date dimension

To facilitate partitioning, the primary key of the dimension could be an integer representing YYMMDD, instead of a sequentially assigned integer.
This dimension needs a separate row for representing unknown or TBD dates.
If the above mentioned key is used, then filtering and grouping should be based on the dimension table's other attributes, not the smart key itself.
When further precision is needed, a separate date/time stamp could be added to the fact table, which would be a standalone column, not related to any dimension.
If business users constrain or group on time-of-day attributes, such as day part grouping or shift number, then you would add a separate time-of-day dimension foreign key to the fact table.

